doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Troubleshooting.md, before:

<a id="Top"></a>

# Troubleshooting guide

Always use the latest repository commits from *master* branch. There are always many fixes done almost daily.

## Table of Contents

- [Troubleshooting guide](#troubleshooting-guide)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [`pm3` or `pm3-flash*` doesn't see my Proxmark](#pm3-or-pm3-flash-doesnt-see-my-proxmark)
  - [`pm3-flash*` stops and warns about up-to-date firmware images](#pm3-flash-stops-and-warns-about-up-to-date-firmware-images)
  - [My Proxmark3 seems bricked](#my-proxmark3-seems-bricked)
    - [Maybe just a false alarm?](#maybe-just-a-false-alarm)
    - [Find out why it would be bricked](#find-out-why-it-would-be-bricked)
    - [Determine if the bootloader was damaged or only the main OS image](#determine-if-the-bootloader-was-damaged-or-only-the-main-os-image)
    - [Ok, my bootloader is definitively dead, now what?](#ok-my-bootloader-is-definitively-dead-now-what)
  - [Slow to boot or difficulties to enumerate the device over USB](#slow-to-boot-or-difficulties-to-enumerate-the-device-over-usb)
  - [Troubles with SIM card reader](#troubles-with-sim-card-reader)
  - [Troubles with t5577 commands or MFC/iClass/T55x7 dictionaries](#troubles-with-t5577-commands-or-mfciclasst55x7-dictionaries)
  - [File not found](#file-not-found)
  - [Pixmap / pixbuf warnings](#pixmap--pixbuf-warnings)
  - [Usb cable](#usb-cable)
  - [WSL](#wsl)
  - [Troubles with running the Proxmark3 client](#troubles-with-running-the-proxmark3-client)
  - [libQt5Core.so.5 not found](#libqt5coreso5-not-found)
  - [target attribute is not supported on this machine](#target-attribute-is-not-supported-on-this-machine)
  - [Qt Session management error](#qt-session-management-error)

## `pm3` or `pm3-flash*` doesn't see my Proxmark

Try using directly the client:

```
client/proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> ...
```

Refer to the installation guide specific to your OS for details about ports.

* [Linux](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Linux-Installation-Instructions.md)
* [Mac OSX](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Mac-OS-X-Homebrew-Installation-Instructions.md)
* [Windows](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Windows-Installation-Instructions.md)

Note that with the Bluetooth adapter, you *have to* use directly the client, and flasher over Bluetooth is not possible.

* [Bluetooth](/doc/bt_manual_v10.md)


## `pm3-flash*` stops and warns about up-to-date firmware images
^[Top](#top)

The Proxmark3 software and firmware is connected tightly. The strong recommendation is to use the client with a Proxmark3 device flashed with firmware images from same source version.  
In the flash process you might get this message because the firmware images is downloaded or distributed and you have compiled your own client from a different source version.  
To minimize the risks the flasher warns about it and stops.

```
    Make sure to flash a correct and up-to-date version
    You can force flashing this firmware by using the option '--force'
```

If you know what you are doing and want to proceed despite the mismatch, you need to add the `--force` param in order to continue flashing.

```sh
pm3-flash-all --force
```

## My Proxmark3 seems bricked
^[Top](#top)

### Maybe just a false alarm?
^[Top](#top)

The flasher refused to flash your Proxmark3? Are there any messages in *red*? The most common reason is that the Proxmark3 RDV4 firmware recently got a new bootloader able to handle larger firmwares and... the image grew over 256k almost at the same time. So your old bootloader can't flash such new images. But it's easy, you just need to flash *first* the bootloader *only*, then the image.

```
pm3-flash-bootrom
pm3-flash-fullimage
```
or
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --unlock-bootloader --image bootrom/obj/bootrom.elf
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf
```

### Find out why it would be bricked
^[Top](#top)

The most common reason of a flashing failure is the interference of ModemManager, read carefully [how to avoid ModemManager-related issues](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/ModemManager-Must-Be-Discarded.md) and fix your setup!

Another possibility is if, when using the button for entering bootloader mode, the button was released during flashing (for old bootloaders) or the button was pressed again during flashing (for newer bootloaders).

### Determine if the bootloader was damaged or only the main OS image
^[Top](#top)

Unplug, press the Proxmark3 button and keep it pressed when you plug it on USB. If the red LEDs show a "off/on/off/on" pattern, you're good, you manually entered into the bootloader mode.
On new bootloaders, you can release the button. If the pattern disappears, you're on an older bootloader and you've to do it again and keep the button pressed during all the flashing operation. 

Once in bootloader mode, flash the main image.

```
pm3-flash-fullimage
```
or
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf
```

You should be back on tracks now. In case the flasher complains about bootloader version, you can follow the button procedure and flash first your bootloader.

```
pm3-flash-bootrom
```
or
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --unlock-bootloader --image bootrom/obj/bootrom.elf
```

### Ok, my bootloader is definitively dead, now what?
^[Top](#top)

At this point, only reflashing via JTAG can revive your Proxmark3.

See [details here](/doc/jtag_notes.md).

## Slow to boot or difficulties to enumerate the device over USB
^[Top](#top)

You're using another Proxmark3 than a RDV4?
The RDV4 firmware can run on other Proxmark3 as such but the booting procedure is a bit slower because of the absence of SIM and external flash.
Make sure to configure properly your `Makefile.platform` to get a firmware better tuned for your Proxmark3 hardware.
See [details here](/doc/md/Use_of_Proxmark/4_Advanced-compilation-parameters.md).

## Troubles with SIM card reader
^[Top](#top)

(RDV4 only) Make sure you've the latest SIM firmware according to the [configuration documentation](/doc/md/Use_of_Proxmark/2_Configuration-and-Verification.md#verify-sim-module-firmware-version).

## Troubles with t5577 commands or MFC/iClass/T55x7 dictionaries
^[Top](#top)

(RDV4 only) Make sure you've set everything up according to the [configuration documentation](/doc/md/Use_of_Proxmark/2_Configuration-and-Verification.md#first-things-on-your-rdv40).

Instructions evolve over time so check if you're still up to date!

## File not found
^[Top](#top)

If Proxmark3 has been installed with `make install` or packaged for your distro, the binaries should be in your path and you can call them directly:

```
pm3
proxmark3
```

and you must adapt accordingly the file path of some commands, e.g.

using the executable direct:
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image /usr/local/share/proxmark3/firmware/fullimage.elf
<>
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image /usr/share/proxmark3/firmware/fullimage.elf

using the script:
pm3 --> smart upgrade -f /usr/local/share/proxmark3/firmware/sim013.bin
<>
pm3 --> smart upgrade -f /usr/share/proxmark3/firmware/sim013.bin
```

If you didn't install the Proxmark but you're working from the sources directory and depending how you launch the client, your working directory might be the root of the repository:

```
./pm3 ...
client/proxmark3 ...
```

or the `client/` subdirectory:

```
cd client; ./proxmark3 ...
```

Therefore client commands referring to files of the repo must be adapted, e.g.

```
client/proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf
<>
./proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image ../armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf

pm3 --> smart upgrade -f sim013.bin
```

etc.

## Pixmap / pixbuf warnings
^[Top](#top)

If you get warnings related to pixmap or pixbuf such as *Pixbuf theme: Cannot load pixmap file* or *Invalid borders specified for theme pixmap*, it's a problem of your Theme, try another one and the problem should vanish. See e.g. [#354](https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/proxmark3/issues/354) (Yaru theme on Ubuntu) and [#386](https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/proxmark3/issues/386) (Kali-X theme on Kali).

## Usb cable
^[Top](#top)

It's needed to have a good USB cable to connect Proxmark3 to USB. If you have stability problems (Proxmark3 resets, firmware hangs, especially firmware hangs just after start, etc.) 

- check your cable with a USB tester (or try to change it). It needs to have a resistance smaller or equal to 0.3 Ohm.

## WSL
^[Top](#top)

When ```explorer.exe .``` doesn't work.  
Trying to access the dump files created in WSL,  you will need to run ```explorer.exe .```  but sometimes this doesn't work.
[As seen here](https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4027)  they suggest checking the following registry value for *P9NP*

[![screenshot of regedit](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/wsl2_p9np.png)](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/wsl2_p9np.png)

## Troubles with running the Proxmark3 client
^[Top](#top)

Some reports has stated that they needed to execute the Proxmark3 as root on their *nix system.  
Try running it with
    `sudo ./pm3`  

## libQt5Core.so.5 not found
^[Top](#top)

On WSL1 / updated to Ubuntu 20.04,  there is a slight chance you experience problems when compiling the repo with QT5.
The following steps is needed to make the development environment happy again.   
```
sudo apt reinstall qtbase5-dev
sudo strip --remove-section=.note.ABI-tag /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libQt5Core.so.5
```

## target attribute is not supported on this machine
^[Top](#top)

If you get the message ```error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]```
when trying to compile,  its because you have an older arm-none-eabi tool chain. 

On OSX/Homebrew, the solution is to reinstall the brew.  It will trigger a new download of a later tool chain.
```
brew remove proxmark3
brew reinstall proxmark3
```

On Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial) you should either consider a later release or you can install a later toolchain.


sample error output:
```
[*] MAKE armsrc/all
compiler version:  arm-none-eabi-gcc (GNU Tools for ARM Embedded Processors) 5.4.1 20160919 (release) [ARM/embedded-5-branch revision 240496]

[-] CC start.c
In file included from start.c:18:0:
BigBuf.h:41:1: error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]
 bool RAMFUNC LogTrace(const uint8_t *btBytes, uint16_t iLen, uint32_t timestamp_start, uint32_t timestamp_end, uint8_t *parity, bool readerToTag);
 ^
cc1: all warnings being treated as errors
In file included from iso15693.c:72:0:
ticks.h:25:1: error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]
 uint32_t RAMFUNC GetTickCount(void);
 ^
ticks.h:26:1: error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]
 uint32_t RAMFUNC GetTickCountDelta(uint32_t start_ticks);
 ^
```

## Qt Session management error
^[Top](#top)

If you get the message  

```
Qt: Session management error: None of the authentication protocols specified are supported
```

when running the Proxmark3 client it might be because a a environment variable.

Solution:
Try running the client without the SESSION_MANAGER environment variable.

```
env -u SESSION_MANAGER ./pm3
```

Commit message:

check daughterboard connection for SIM issues
Signed-off-by: Henry Gabryjelski <henrygab@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Troubleshooting.md, after:

<a id="Top"></a>

# Troubleshooting guide

Always use the latest repository commits from *master* branch. There are always many fixes done almost daily.

## Table of Contents

- [Troubleshooting guide](#troubleshooting-guide)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [`pm3` or `pm3-flash*` doesn't see my Proxmark](#pm3-or-pm3-flash-doesnt-see-my-proxmark)
  - [`pm3-flash*` stops and warns about up-to-date firmware images](#pm3-flash-stops-and-warns-about-up-to-date-firmware-images)
  - [My Proxmark3 seems bricked](#my-proxmark3-seems-bricked)
    - [Maybe just a false alarm?](#maybe-just-a-false-alarm)
    - [Find out why it would be bricked](#find-out-why-it-would-be-bricked)
    - [Determine if the bootloader was damaged or only the main OS image](#determine-if-the-bootloader-was-damaged-or-only-the-main-os-image)
    - [Ok, my bootloader is definitively dead, now what?](#ok-my-bootloader-is-definitively-dead-now-what)
  - [Slow to boot or difficulties to enumerate the device over USB](#slow-to-boot-or-difficulties-to-enumerate-the-device-over-usb)
  - [Troubles with SIM card reader](#troubles-with-sim-card-reader)
  - [Troubles with t5577 commands or MFC/iClass/T55x7 dictionaries](#troubles-with-t5577-commands-or-mfciclasst55x7-dictionaries)
  - [File not found](#file-not-found)
  - [Pixmap / pixbuf warnings](#pixmap--pixbuf-warnings)
  - [Usb cable](#usb-cable)
  - [WSL](#wsl)
  - [Troubles with running the Proxmark3 client](#troubles-with-running-the-proxmark3-client)
  - [libQt5Core.so.5 not found](#libqt5coreso5-not-found)
  - [target attribute is not supported on this machine](#target-attribute-is-not-supported-on-this-machine)
  - [Qt Session management error](#qt-session-management-error)

## `pm3` or `pm3-flash*` doesn't see my Proxmark

Try using directly the client:

```
client/proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> ...
```

Refer to the installation guide specific to your OS for details about ports.

* [Linux](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Linux-Installation-Instructions.md)
* [Mac OSX](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Mac-OS-X-Homebrew-Installation-Instructions.md)
* [Windows](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/Windows-Installation-Instructions.md)

Note that with the Bluetooth adapter, you *have to* use directly the client, and flasher over Bluetooth is not possible.

* [Bluetooth](/doc/bt_manual_v10.md)


## `pm3-flash*` stops and warns about up-to-date firmware images
^[Top](#top)

The Proxmark3 software and firmware is connected tightly. The strong recommendation is to use the client with a Proxmark3 device flashed with firmware images from same source version.  
In the flash process you might get this message because the firmware images is downloaded or distributed and you have compiled your own client from a different source version.  
To minimize the risks the flasher warns about it and stops.

```
    Make sure to flash a correct and up-to-date version
    You can force flashing this firmware by using the option '--force'
```

If you know what you are doing and want to proceed despite the mismatch, you need to add the `--force` param in order to continue flashing.

```sh
pm3-flash-all --force
```

## My Proxmark3 seems bricked
^[Top](#top)

### Maybe just a false alarm?
^[Top](#top)

The flasher refused to flash your Proxmark3? Are there any messages in *red*? The most common reason is that the Proxmark3 RDV4 firmware recently got a new bootloader able to handle larger firmwares and... the image grew over 256k almost at the same time. So your old bootloader can't flash such new images. But it's easy, you just need to flash *first* the bootloader *only*, then the image.

```
pm3-flash-bootrom
pm3-flash-fullimage
```
or
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --unlock-bootloader --image bootrom/obj/bootrom.elf
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf
```

### Find out why it would be bricked
^[Top](#top)

The most common reason of a flashing failure is the interference of ModemManager, read carefully [how to avoid ModemManager-related issues](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/ModemManager-Must-Be-Discarded.md) and fix your setup!

Another possibility is if, when using the button for entering bootloader mode, the button was released during flashing (for old bootloaders) or the button was pressed again during flashing (for newer bootloaders).

### Determine if the bootloader was damaged or only the main OS image
^[Top](#top)

Unplug, press the Proxmark3 button and keep it pressed when you plug it on USB. If the red LEDs show a "off/on/off/on" pattern, you're good, you manually entered into the bootloader mode.
On new bootloaders, you can release the button. If the pattern disappears, you're on an older bootloader and you've to do it again and keep the button pressed during all the flashing operation. 

Once in bootloader mode, flash the main image.

```
pm3-flash-fullimage
```
or
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf
```

You should be back on tracks now. In case the flasher complains about bootloader version, you can follow the button procedure and flash first your bootloader.

```
pm3-flash-bootrom
```
or
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --unlock-bootloader --image bootrom/obj/bootrom.elf
```

### Ok, my bootloader is definitively dead, now what?
^[Top](#top)

At this point, only reflashing via JTAG can revive your Proxmark3.

See [details here](/doc/jtag_notes.md).

## Slow to boot or difficulties to enumerate the device over USB
^[Top](#top)

You're using another Proxmark3 than a RDV4?
The RDV4 firmware can run on other Proxmark3 as such but the booting procedure is a bit slower because of the absence of SIM and external flash.
Make sure to configure properly your `Makefile.platform` to get a firmware better tuned for your Proxmark3 hardware.
See [details here](/doc/md/Use_of_Proxmark/4_Advanced-compilation-parameters.md).

## Troubles with SIM card reader
^[Top](#top)

(RDV4 only) Make sure you've the latest SIM firmware according to the [configuration documentation](/doc/md/Use_of_Proxmark/2_Configuration-and-Verification.md#verify-sim-module-firmware-version).

Check that the SIM daughterboard is properly seated onto the mainboard.  Pressure on the edges of the daughterboard could cause the connector to partially disconnect (especially good to check if problems began after installation of the bluetooth module, for example).

## Troubles with t5577 commands or MFC/iClass/T55x7 dictionaries
^[Top](#top)

(RDV4 only) Make sure you've set everything up according to the [configuration documentation](/doc/md/Use_of_Proxmark/2_Configuration-and-Verification.md#first-things-on-your-rdv40).

Instructions evolve over time so check if you're still up to date!

## File not found
^[Top](#top)

If Proxmark3 has been installed with `make install` or packaged for your distro, the binaries should be in your path and you can call them directly:

```
pm3
proxmark3
```

and you must adapt accordingly the file path of some commands, e.g.

using the executable direct:
```
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image /usr/local/share/proxmark3/firmware/fullimage.elf
<>
proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image /usr/share/proxmark3/firmware/fullimage.elf

using the script:
pm3 --> smart upgrade -f /usr/local/share/proxmark3/firmware/sim013.bin
<>
pm3 --> smart upgrade -f /usr/share/proxmark3/firmware/sim013.bin
```

If you didn't install the Proxmark but you're working from the sources directory and depending how you launch the client, your working directory might be the root of the repository:

```
./pm3 ...
client/proxmark3 ...
```

or the `client/` subdirectory:

```
cd client; ./proxmark3 ...
```

Therefore client commands referring to files of the repo must be adapted, e.g.

```
client/proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf
<>
./proxmark3 <YOUR_PORT_HERE> --flash --image ../armsrc/obj/fullimage.elf

pm3 --> smart upgrade -f sim013.bin
```

etc.

## Pixmap / pixbuf warnings
^[Top](#top)

If you get warnings related to pixmap or pixbuf such as *Pixbuf theme: Cannot load pixmap file* or *Invalid borders specified for theme pixmap*, it's a problem of your Theme, try another one and the problem should vanish. See e.g. [#354](https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/proxmark3/issues/354) (Yaru theme on Ubuntu) and [#386](https://github.com/RfidResearchGroup/proxmark3/issues/386) (Kali-X theme on Kali).

## Usb cable
^[Top](#top)

It's needed to have a good USB cable to connect Proxmark3 to USB. If you have stability problems (Proxmark3 resets, firmware hangs, especially firmware hangs just after start, etc.) 

- check your cable with a USB tester (or try to change it). It needs to have a resistance smaller or equal to 0.3 Ohm.

## WSL
^[Top](#top)

When ```explorer.exe .``` doesn't work.  
Trying to access the dump files created in WSL,  you will need to run ```explorer.exe .```  but sometimes this doesn't work.
[As seen here](https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4027)  they suggest checking the following registry value for *P9NP*

[![screenshot of regedit](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/wsl2_p9np.png)](/doc/md/Installation_Instructions/wsl2_p9np.png)

## Troubles with running the Proxmark3 client
^[Top](#top)

Some reports has stated that they needed to execute the Proxmark3 as root on their *nix system.  
Try running it with
    `sudo ./pm3`  

## libQt5Core.so.5 not found
^[Top](#top)

On WSL1 / updated to Ubuntu 20.04,  there is a slight chance you experience problems when compiling the repo with QT5.
The following steps is needed to make the development environment happy again.   
```
sudo apt reinstall qtbase5-dev
sudo strip --remove-section=.note.ABI-tag /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libQt5Core.so.5
```

## target attribute is not supported on this machine
^[Top](#top)

If you get the message ```error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]```
when trying to compile,  its because you have an older arm-none-eabi tool chain. 

On OSX/Homebrew, the solution is to reinstall the brew.  It will trigger a new download of a later tool chain.
```
brew remove proxmark3
brew reinstall proxmark3
```

On Ubuntu 16.04 (xenial) you should either consider a later release or you can install a later toolchain.


sample error output:
```
[*] MAKE armsrc/all
compiler version:  arm-none-eabi-gcc (GNU Tools for ARM Embedded Processors) 5.4.1 20160919 (release) [ARM/embedded-5-branch revision 240496]

[-] CC start.c
In file included from start.c:18:0:
BigBuf.h:41:1: error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]
 bool RAMFUNC LogTrace(const uint8_t *btBytes, uint16_t iLen, uint32_t timestamp_start, uint32_t timestamp_end, uint8_t *parity, bool readerToTag);
 ^
cc1: all warnings being treated as errors
In file included from iso15693.c:72:0:
ticks.h:25:1: error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]
 uint32_t RAMFUNC GetTickCount(void);
 ^
ticks.h:26:1: error: target attribute is not supported on this machine [-Werror=attributes]
 uint32_t RAMFUNC GetTickCountDelta(uint32_t start_ticks);
 ^
```

## Qt Session management error
^[Top](#top)

If you get the message  

```
Qt: Session management error: None of the authentication protocols specified are supported
```

when running the Proxmark3 client it might be because a a environment variable.

Solution:
Try running the client without the SESSION_MANAGER environment variable.

```
env -u SESSION_MANAGER ./pm3
```
